see next mark Crispin Miller is joined
by an béarnaise to discuss her father
and the new edition of his 1928 book
propaganda the program is 45 minutes
thank you all for coming
I wrote the introduction to this reissue
of this new edition of every Bernays is
classic propaganda we're all so lucky to
have with us tonight a member of Edward
Bernays his family I'm going to
introduce her at the end of my remarks
I'm just going to talk very briefly
about the historical context for this
book and then I'll turn the event over
to our other guests when Edward Bernays
published propaganda the word itself was
pejorative in much the same way it is
today when we say someone does
propaganda or is doing or writing
propaganda we don't usually mean that as
a compliment we we have come to accept
the word as a kind of synonym for lying
well the interesting thing about this
word is that it did not have that kind
of a pejorative connotation but really
before World War 1 the word was actually
coined by the Vatican in 1622 propaganda
was recognized by the Korea as a
necessary function for the church to
perform in in defense against the spread
of Protestantism Protestantism was a big
success it was very popular and Pope
Gregory the 15th
therefore urged the creation of an
office for the propagation of the faith
which was known as the propaganda and
which still exists is still part of the
Vatican it it was intended to supervise
missionary activities abroad so the
first thing to understand about
propaganda is that its original use was
by no means pejorative in fact it was
regarded as really the holiest of
activities and by definition
dissemination of the truth st. Paul was
deemed and still may be considered the
first great propagandist in history as
he devoted himself to spreading the
gospel all over the then-known world
well the word became pejorative after a
couple of centuries of neutral use
people would refer to propaganda without
any particular negative thrust it became
it became pejorative because of its use
in world war ii by propagandists in the
west the word actually became
commonplace it became well known because
of the activities of allied
propagandists in World War one who would
use the word throughout their propaganda
about the Germans used the word always
and exclusively to refer to what the
Germans did so in British and American
War propaganda you would only encounter
the word propaganda when our
propagandists were referring to anything
that the Germans said and because it was
an alien word with many syllables in it
it naturally had a sinister ring to it
and it's its exclusive use in
conjunction with the enemy made it seem
to be a fairly reliable synonym for
deception lot of deliberate lies or or
half-truths all the things that we
associate propaganda with today never
did the American propagandists or the
British propagandists refer to their own
propaganda and interestingly there
seems to be some evidence that a lot of
the discussion of the word propaganda by
our propagandists was sincere I mean
that is to say people sincerely believed
that they weren't doing propaganda on
our side only the enemy did propaganda
we were telling the truth we were
providing information you know the great
the great American propaganda office was
the office of War Information
well that that usage stuck in the West
at any rate a propaganda remained a
negative word some people some
professionals were not entirely happy
about this and and that was the case
with Edward Bernays Edward Bernays had
been a very busy publicist before the
war he'd worked in in the world of
theater publicity but he had a he had a
very exalted notion of what propaganda
really ought to be and in his view
propaganda should call itself by its
true name he thought that those who use
it as a pejorative term are misusing it
but those who are practitioners of
propaganda have no reason to be ashamed
of it it performs a very useful and
necessary social function so one of the
points of Bernays --is book and
published in 1928 i think is to try to
reclaim the word to make the word
respectable again because in his
estimation and he said as much in his
own of monography he it was a shame that
a perfectly good word like this could
not be used in polite society or could
only be used as an insult and in a way
he's right because there really is no
other word for propaganda that we call
it's spin we call it hype all kinds of
euphemisms comes in on a political
communication or strategic communication
or public relations or advertising well
really the the most efficient word for
the thing itself is propaganda and
Bearnaise wanted to make that point now
he was i I think single-handedly
responsible for exalting reputation of
public relations he's known as the
father of public relations and this is
an epithet that he himself used quite a
bit and took pride in the background to
this is that the world of puffery
advertising PR whatever you want to call
it throughout the 19th century was was
rather disreputable advertising and all
similar related kinds of puffery had a
very bad reputation in the business
community was associated with patent
medicines you know poisonous non cures
that were represented as cure-alls it
was also associated with the
advertisement of cigarettes it didn't it
didn't have a very happy reputation
it wasn't until World War one
that propaganda became respectable
because of its association with the
fight for civilization as all of those
who worked in the disparate fields of
propaganda and advertising PR etc they
all came together to collaborate on this
patriotic the patriotic project to save
the world for democracy to sell Liberty
Bonds and so on all of this enabled that
profession to become self conscious and
and unafraid to sell itself as
propaganda
once the war was over that the 20s saw a
tremendous explosion of books
high-minded seeming books
extolling the virtues and the uses of
propaganda to the business community
especially this was in fact a wave of
post-war propaganda on behalf of
propaganda Edward Bernays was the most
famous and accomplished of all these
professionals he was the one most
self-conscious in using the term public
relations since propaganda was a term
that really could no longer be used and
the book is you know it is really a
fascinating thing to read it was not a
success as a work meant to rescue the
word from pejorative use interesting in
the same year that propaganda came out
there was another book published both
here and in Britain called lies in
wartime or the use of lies in wartime by
a member of parliament named Arthur
Ponsonby and this was a retrospective of
expose of how the British propagandists
in World War one had made everything up
it's basically a catalogue of all the
most notorious and hideous lies that
have been told about the Germans that
the case of the crucified Canadian the
Germans crucified some Canadian cut off
the breasts of nurses impaled babies on
bayonets and so on these were really
notorious and highly influential tales
Ponsonby in a very scholarly way refuted
them all and demonstrated that the whole
gruesome narrative of the German rape of
Belgium was really a tissue of lies and
half-truths that book was a big success
in that book basically anticipated the
public attitude toward propaganda from
then on although Bernays was extremely
successful what he did and and brilliant
at the kind of work he did and much
sought after by business interests and
also did some work in government he
never really succeeded in making
propaganda respectable certainly among
the intelligentsia and shortly after his
book came out with the onset of the
Great Depression propagandas reputation
just sank lower because now people's
distrust of official lying was
exacerbated by the disappointments of
the depression and all the sort of stock
market driven propaganda of the 20s
seemed even more deceptive in retrospect
so that by the 30s propaganda was
definitely a dirty word interestingly it
was a dirty word that was not yet
associated with communism particularly
as a matter of fact in the 30s as more
and more people came to learn the truth
about advertising and marketing as more
and more of the details of how the war
propagandists of the Great War had
really made stuff up and taken people in
as that happened the word propaganda
became really for the first and only
time in its history familiar to everyone
as a word denoting
deceptions that originate on our own
side the propaganda to many of us who
have grown up since the Cold War seems
like a foreign thing an alien thing and
too many people over a certain age
propaganda is always and forever to be
associated with communism the communist
propaganda it's you know it's redundant
it's like tax-and-spend Democrat you
know communist propaganda all
propagandist communists well before the
Cold War in before world war ii in the
30s in particular was a tremendous
amount of healthy suspicion and distrust
of propaganda and and a general sense
that it tended to come from institutions
here at home didn't come from our
government tended to come from our banks
tended to come from our corporations so
there was a kind of populist moment when
the word was more or less accurately
used well one could talk endlessly about
the uses and abuses of propaganda in the
present
I actually really find myself wondering
what Edward Bernays would make of the
current administration which is reliant
on propaganda of a particular kind to an
extent that I would never have imagined
outside works of fiction I don't know
what he would have thought of that but
in his own time and in his own place he
believed the propaganda served a
necessary function that democracy
couldn't function without it that the
masses were basically not all that
capable of sorting things out for
themselves they needed to have things
explained to them he was heavily
influenced by walter Lippmann who had a
kind of tragic view of the impossibility
of real democracy Bernays view was not
that tragic he was sort of unapologetic
in his view of how propaganda really
should work at the hands of the the
clever and clued in whew
for the sake of the
bewildered many and I think his honesty
is actually laudable most celebrants of
propaganda aren't that honest so having
given you that very general introduction
now it gives me great pleasure to
introduce and Bearnaise Edward Bernays
his daughter she's a novelist and a
teacher she teaches at the Newman Center
in Harvard University and she has a
forthcoming novel called trophy house
please join me in welcoming and
Bearnaise before I start I just like a
show of hands please how many people
have ever heard of this man my father
for five okay there are you his students
okay well I'm trying to get a hold on
some way to communicate to you how
powerful he was and how pervasive his
influence was and I maybe I'll tell a
little anecdote to show you what I mean
there was a man named Adam Curtis who
called me from London a couple of years
ago and he said I'm Adam Curtis and I
work for the BBC and I wanted to a
hour-long broadcast television thing on
your father and I was completely charmed
by I think by his accent more than
anything and I said sure and he came and
saw me and he interviewed me at length
maybe four or five hours he interviewed
my sister who didn't like him and then
he came back and interviewed me again a
second year and he then he called me he
said finally the tapes are ready I'm
going to send you a tape and he sent me
the tape and it made my father out to be
a villain on the on a par with Hitler
and was absolutely amazing and I thought
you know this is the first time I've
ever been on the other side because I
always thought my father was a
manipulator and although he did believe
in it honestly he he was an elitist and
that's something that I have never been
so when I was asked by my publisher by
your publisher by his publisher not my
publisher to talk about what it was like
to live with this man and I lived with
him for mmm almost 25 years and then I
lived in the same city with him so I and
he lived to be 103
so when I when I was growing up I knew
what public relations was I know what it
was called but I didn't know what it was
and so when people asked me what my
father did you know all my friends
fathers were because we went to a very
fancy private school doctors and lawyers
and people who worked for the government
and bridge builders and all that and I
said my father's in public relations and
they said what's that and I couldn't
tell them I'd start I think I'll start
with telling you something some of the
good things about living with my father
some of the bright the sunny hours and
then go on to the other side of it first
of all he could make friends with almost
anybody he could sit down with any of
you and within five minutes you would be
telling him your life story including
your sex life he used to come come and
ask my friends how their sex life wasn't
Oh Eddie stop everybody called him Eddie
except the people who worked for him
they were not allowed to call him Eddie
they had to call him mr. Bernays he had
one man who worked for him in his office
for something like 35 years and this man
was known as mr. Cutler and my father
was known by mr. Cutler as mr. Bernays
that never changed but everybody else
called him Eddie
including us that is his children we
were not allowed to call him dad or pop
or a daddy or anything like that
we had to call him Eddie
one time my husband who was sitting in
the front row and my father and I were
driving out to some part of Long Island
and I don't remember why we were there
but the car broke down
and the person who was driving the car
stopped at a little gas station and my
husband and I took a little walk and we
came back and my father was sitting on a
folding chair like these chairs talking
to a an old fat Italian woman and they
were talking together as if they had
been lifelong friends I'd never seen
anything like it she was smiling and
laughing and using her hands and they
were just having the most wonderful talk
and it was an off guard moment of my
father's who he had very few such off
guard moments mostly it was spent being
on he was so he was very very sociable
he loved women he chased them around the
house when he got older that wasn't such
fun one time he brought home a mummy in
a glass case it was about this big and
it had a x-ray with it and my mother
said what's that and she he said that's
a Egyptian princess and showed her the
x-ray with a scarab on it on her chest
like this and he just loved that mummy
he'd bought it at an auction he just
went in I mean how many people would do
that he went in he was completely
spontaneous and if you expected anything
from him forget it he never once gave my
mother a birthday present but he would
bring her presents at other times so it
was unexpected he was great with small
children he absolutely adored small
children and knew exactly how to behave
with him so he was a really a paradox to
me because he had all these sort of
spurts of generosity and spontaneity
and unkindness and on the other hand he
was a tyrant
I remember for instance many dinner
table where I left in tears and because
I questioned something my father said
and he would he would have his face
would got purple and he'd bang his hand
on the table and said you're wrong and
and make me cry and leave the table
there was no there was only one way of
doing things and that was his way you're
not the very hard way to grow up so
there was never any dialogue with him it
was his way or no other no way
do any of you know the play life with
father you could raise your head no it
was um it was a play about a Victorian
household by a man named Clarence Darrow
and they made a move they made a play
out of it then they made a movie out of
it what I'm sorry Clarence day wrong
click and the father was an absolute
tyrant in the in the play and in the
movie this tyrant was lovable but
tyrants are not lovable tyrants oppress
you and they make you feel terrible and
they make you feel stupid and for the
first maybe 35 years of my life I felt
stupid and I finally realized I wasn't
he had an absolute view of publicity
which was if they the example of this
I've sang in a chorus for years and
years and years and we gave clubs and
concerts and nobody ever reviewed them
and one time I said to him I just feel
awful nobody nobody ever reviews our
concerts they're so good people came to
the concerts but nobody reviewed them
you know what he said to me if nobody
reviewed it it didn't happen
so that was his view of life and this
carried over into everything he did he
was a complete workaholic before the
word was invented he he was so he was so
focused on his work that all all his
social contacts everything he did was
connected to his work that what he he
never had a hobby he never played a game
never saw him playing a game of cards
never saw him do anything that wasn't
connected with his work oh one other
good thing my president remote reminded
me what he was he he didn't care
anything about the way he looked so he
uh when he got older he owned one suit
in one pair of shoes literally I'm not
I'm not kidding and I remember when he
was quite old and he was halfway into
Alzheimer's I bought him a pair of
sneakers black sneakers and he and he
wouldn't even try them on he got
terribly angry and he looked like a
bagman at the end of his life he really
did but he just didn't care I mean he
didn't buy you cufflinks and all of you
know the stuff my mother dressed him
when he was younger but he never cared
at all he was mahalik thing was so
pronounced that on Sundays when he when
he couldn't work and he couldn't phone
people
he stayed silent all day nobody he
wouldn't he wouldn't communicate with
anybody he couldn't talk he was
completely unavailable to me and my
sister in ways that father's usually are
for instance in the ten years that I
went to the same school like I don't
remember his ever visiting once I don't
want to sound like I feel sorry for
myself because I've come to terms with
this but it was it I thought everybody
was like this I didn't know any better
he was a really strange man
he was also he wasn't elitist and by the
way there is a word that you left out
for there's a good synonym for
propaganda which he used a lot
persuasion today yeah okay he really was
an elitist and he had a great sense of a
class you know at the top were the
people who were smart and had the power
and then came the people who worked for
those people and then below that
probably the great masses of people and
he as you said he didn't really have
much faith in the masses of people but
he was really an awful snob and one and
he he never learned to drive it reminds
me of a joke whose punchline - thank God
he didn't have to but he one summer
years ago when my kids were very small
they rented a house in a in a Xer above
Boston and of course they had a had a
they branded a Cadillac or they bought a
Cadillac I don't remember which it was
and and a draw and they hired a driver
who was a graduate student at Harvard
who really didn't know how to drive at
all and he scolded me and my husband for
sitting with the driver and talking to
him so this is this is what I had to put
up with on the other hand he put his
cousin Sophie Freud who was Sigmund
Freud's grandchild through Radcliffe and
I and I'm sure did a lot of other very
generous things without making any noise
about it or telling anybody about it
he was really
a paradox and a mixture of things you
never could tell what he was going to do
but one thing he did not set out to do
was to he didn't know how to be with
being my sister he didn't know how to
talk to us without telling us what to do
so it was it was rough
it really was it was rough for a long
long time and then at the very end if
you read a book called the father of
spin you will see the about by Larry taw
you'll see that at the end he he really
got into a lot of trouble and the worst
qualities came out and sort of in spades
so that's about what I what I've got to
say that's about 15 minutes and do we
have question-and-answer
yes now we're supposed to wait until the
mic comes to you and then we have to
repeat the question that we don't have
for people a lot of work here ok thank
you very much for speaking about your
father um I was interested in hearing
you said that for 35 years you felt
stupid and I wondered what was the
deciding event that you realized you
weren't well I guess when I started oh
but when did I decide I wasn't I wasn't
stupid I'm dad still not sure I still
have I still have moments where I think
I must be really horribly stupid I
started publishing novels and I know no
novelist aren't intellectuals but they
have to have something going you know
something
so I think that's what it was I would
like to know how you think his personal
qualities translated into his work how
did his personal qualities translate
into his work one is that he was
intensely focused another is that he
made imaginative leaps always he could
he could yoke ideas anytime anyplace I
mean you'd see I can't even reproduce it
for you I mean if I sat down and thought
about it for a while I could give you a
really good example but he could take
idea a an idea mmm and somehow make them
marry them and make it work and and so
that he was that was the
unpredictability you know you read about
poets and you read about novelists and
they all they're drinkers and if thank
God he didn't drink you know and thank
God he wasn't an abuser but what were
his his addictions were where his work
where whether where the thoughts that
went on in his head and the and the
problems he was solving all the time
never never never stopped working and so
that I didn't know any of this I mean
this is all hindsight this is if he had
said to me as it when I was a child
you know if I some sometimes seem to
neglect you I don't mean to but I'm
really very busy with this problem or
something like that I
he was really sort of very close to
being a genius I think um what were his
favorite books and writers his favorite
books and writers what were his favorite
books and writers that he I remember
when he read a novel somebody set him a
novel it was a novel by a young man
named Myron s Kaufland and it was called
remember me to God has anybody ever
heard of this novel it was it okay novel
you know it wasn't it wasn't bad but
somehow we read this novel and he
thought it was the greatest thing he
ever read and he went around telling
everybody about I remember me to God and
it was the only novel he ever read on
the other hand no I'm I'm remembering
something he he did with two other
people when he was a Broadway publicist
wrote wrote a book of poetry and
published it and I can't remember the
name of it I've got it at home I can't
remember the name of it but that's it
that's a really odd thing his favorite
books were books by sociologists like
Gordon Allport and you know unreadable
things but he never since he never
started he almost never went to the
movies I think maybe in his whole life
he saw five movies I don't know where
whether he ever went to plays because
that would distract him from what was
going on up here and he was a totally
focused person on his work
I'm curious as to what your father's
personal view is about war were I mean
nobody obviously nobody likes war but in
terms of like being for the mechanism or
against it or what his views were in
that well I grew up you want to answer
what was the what were my father's view
is about war well he certainly as a Jew
in the in the Second World War he was
very much for that war as everybody was
and in particularly Jews and he did an
awful lot to I don't know he got but
with book published he worked with book
publishers and God got low cost books to
our boys in the Army overseas he never
discussed that with me and I don't
remember it ever coming up I would think
he would be skeptical as a solution yeah
I take it thing he never talked about
his work at home he always talked about
his work he talked about the things he
was oh all the time that was what that
was what happened at dinner that was the
only thing he talked about that was all
there was I mean it was a monomania his
work as I said I never saw him play game
I never saw him hold a hand of cards or
throw paradise or bounce a ball or
tennis or at nothing he just was totally
into his work and then he lived it
do you I wonder if you remember any of
the of the projects that he was working
on was there one dinner that you
remember that maybe you connected to
what his product was or that something
we connected to the real world for you
how did his but whether any of his
projects or ever cropped up and you know
our social life is that it in our dinner
talk no it didn't I
I just felt well I really felt left out
I really felt as if I was listening
listening to this powerful personality
and being mostly passive as my sister
was and my mother who was a really
brilliant woman was was often very quiet
also she was extremely verbal and
brilliant so I just held forth mostly is
that Justin is that your and did he hold
forth Eddie
[Music]
when his father was focused on a certain
project we would hear about it for
example when we were first married and I
would come to you in his house for
dinner I would hear a great deal about
the United Fruit Company and and the
amazing discovery that someone had made
that bananas were a surefire cure for
celiac disease in children and this was
it in the in the way that that public
relations works this was a very
effective piece of information because
the United Food Company was now given
the role of the savior of Americans
children always they were ripping
Guatemala off like crazy 49 no we
couldn't have been 49 because you
because we you didn't know me then 50 53
maybe yeah they're hearing yeah okay her
husband Jeff Justin happened remembers
Edward Bernays talking evidently at the
time of the coup in Guatemala which
would be 1954 about some discovery about
bananas his client was the United Fruit
Company which basically was Guatemala
and he discussed at the table the
discovery or the allegation it was the
discovery that bananas
we're a cure for celiac disease not a
cure we can alleviate the symptoms right
as a kind of public relations boom right
that's interesting yeah
well the United it was just like a wise
Park just say one thing about that
what's so interesting to me in this is
that this is a guy who always prided
himself as you made clear here on his
his mastery of the situation and his
mastery of his of his craft and his
mastery of mass consciousness he had
this notion of himself as as a kind of
propaganda master that we also recognize
in people like gurbles
I mean I don't mean to take that
comparison any further but this notion
that there Wizards who can kind of
control how the masses feel about things
sounds like that's the way he treated
his family - what's interesting to me is
that you know when someone says if it
wasn't reviewed it didn't happen that
means that they're they're kind of
they're traipsing onto the terrain of
the irrational where everything is not
controllable and you're not in complete
command and one of the things that
strikes me as most interesting about his
autobiography is the chapter on
Guatemala where he's been working for
the United Fruit Company
he's intimately involved with the coup
and all its developments and he the
chapter is very strange because
obviously the version that he was
constantly selling was the government
version of the CIA's coup now he never
sort of puts it that way or admits it
but throughout the chapter he keeps
saying I tried and tried to get some
reliable information about what was
going on and I just couldn't get that
information he says that repeatedly and
I think that's because the information
the truth was something I didn't want to
hear and couldn't hear that's it right
that's it but he wasn't you know
concerned about bananas and celiac
disease okay there's one back there what
was his relationship with Sigmund Freud
you mean what was his relationship with
Sigmund Freud he was responsible and he
was his nephew double nephew and he was
responsible for getting Sigmund Freud
first published in America excuse me by
boner and liver right I didn't need some
water Thanks any scent Freud of cigars
[Laughter]
then mark mentioned this in his in his
remarks what do you think he would think
about what's going on today specifically
like the Bush administration do you
think do you think he what do you think
he would feel about it
well he's voted and he taught it as a
Democrat all all his life if I believe
him
except except he did work for doing once
but I think he would be appalled I
really do I mean as I am yes well he
told me all right
well you know with within its proper
confines propaganda as he discussed it
and as he used it is defensible I mean
there are a lot of ways it seems to me
in which the book is disingenuous and I
talked about that in the introduction
but when it when it comes to specific
tasks set by a client is my favorite
example listen this is an example of how
smart he he was he had had a client who
made pianos I forget the name of the
company it said only every example in
the book propaganda which is always
refers to them sort of in the passive
tense and there was this campaign this
is an example there all his campaigns so
the book is really you know it's an ad
for his services which is fine you know
because he was amazingly go to what he
did and here's an example how do you
sell piano do you sell more pianos and
he had nothing but contempt for the
vulgar tout you know who would slap
posters all over the place they buy buy
this piano it's really
good piano that was that was complete
vulgarity that was puffery he had the
idea of concocting a trend toward
building music rooms in houses yes and
the same thing with with buying books he
got architects to put bookshelves in the
houses they were building so this is
what I mean by putting these two ideas
together I mean none of us here would
have thought of that we would have gone
to the to the publisher and saying
you've got to sell more books and here's
how you might sell more books but if you
put a bookshelf a series of bookshelves
in a house what are you gonna put in
there with tchotchkes so you know within
that context the propaganda in its place
you know it's kind of hard to argue with
it unless you have moral qualms about
the thing being so like you know he
didn't work for the American tobacco
company for example and I guess he was
yes but he would never take a liquor
liquor client right never wouldn't do it
the thing is that now the the
propagandists frame of mind has been put
at the service of an administration that
is completely out of touch with reality
and and wants to force reality into the
mold of its propaganda design if you get
if you get intelligence that doesn't
suit your purpose which is to go to war
with Iraq you just get different
intelligence and you ask the guy who's
doing the intelligence we should Clark
well you just find evidence that Iraq
was behind 9/11 please if there's
scientific information that this would I
know this would horrify him because he
was a real rationalist to scientific
information that's been discovered by
your FDA you know one of your agencies
and it contradicts your religious
scruples for example there's no that's
been proven to be no connection between
contraception and breast cancer well you
don't want that study to be posted you
know what there was
posted on a government website because
that you know our propaganda says that
there is a relationship between them
because people who use contraception
deserve breast cancer right I could go
on listing instances like this where
we're talking more about or well than we
aren't about Bernays and the fact is it
isn't ultimately and I think that this
haunted him your father is ultimately in
a rational business because if you say
it didn't happen if it wasn't reviewed
but that's that's fine if you're just
sticking to the realm of reviewing shows
but when you're talking about
life-and-death matters when you're
actually able to try to get very able to
believe your own propaganda and you take
umbrage at people who argue with it then
you're in the territory of the
irrational and then then the comparison
to the Nazis apt
I'm a little curious and having a
difficulty on this leap of faith that he
would be appalled I mean the current
administration is absolute masters of
his field and even though he may have
had some qualms about some of his
clients or his subjects when he took on
United Fruit in the 1950s there's he was
not say they are doing something very
wrong very well let me add to that that
Bernays was a progressive a lot of the
people who were involved in the
propaganda business early in the central
a George creel the guy who ran the
office of War Information I mean these
were progressives these were people who
you know believed in the liberal agenda
they were kind of dictatorial about it
but they would never have gone for a
kind of theocratic crack pottery like we
have now I mean this is this is an this
is a pre enlightenment presidency and an
Anthea not kiddin sounds like a joke but
it's the sad truth this is an anti
enlightenment administration they don't
believe in reason and that would it's
the dark ages again I really think so
anyway thank you all for coming the new
edition of Edward